the very first of our tricky graph
problems I want to address is that of
connectedness so it's a pretty
straightforward problem given a graph
does there exist a path from say vertex
zero to vertex seven so I'm going to
give you an algorithm that I'd like you
to critique which is the following so if
i want to check if say 0 and 7 are
connected we say 12 the seven equals
zero in this case look right seven is
not the same thing as zero so we could
do this check all of F of children for
connectivity to T and if any of those
children is connected will return true
so in this case there's only one thing
to check which is one because like if
connected 1 comma 7 will return true and
in that case if that does not happen
we'll return false because well none of
my children was connected to teeth
therefore I'm not connected so what I'd
like you to do now I think we'll this
algorithm work turns out it won't so the
goal for you is to think why won't it
work so ponder this question briefly
okay so the issue is that if we do this
right if we think about what this code
is going to do it what connected 17 it's
going to say is one connected to seven
no so then it'll check all of its
children and I'll check is zero
connected to Center it is too connected
to seven and so forth so that can
actually generate in this case an
infinite number of calls we can get into
an infinite loop in the worst case and
in the best case maybe it works maybe it
doesn't you have to think more carefully
but it's going to be incredibly
inefficient because we keep revisiting
vertices over and over and over we want
to avoid that problem so what we're
going to do is change things up just a
little and say mark s then the magical
step will be rather than checking all of
SS children or all of SS unmarked
neighbors outside all of s's neighbors
we're going to check only the unmarked
ones now I realized by the way while I
was mid video but I'm under a little
time constraint now I won't quite get
there that we didn't introduce the time
term child at any point but i hope the
intention was clear which is a neighbor
so list now and run through what this
algorithm feels like if we mark
vertices as we search so what we're
going to do is we'll start by well
marking 0 and we'll say is your equal to
70 ok now we'll check the children or
the neighbors I guess we'll say well say
is one mark no ok so in that case we'll
call connected 17 well when you call
connected 17 the first thing you do is
you mark one so i'm using this whited
out square syndicate that were marked
and i'm using this asterisk indicates
the value of s so then we say is f equal
to sentence notes is 0 marked yes so in
this case we avoid the problem we had
before a revisiting 0 again and then how
about is marked too ok well it is not
marked so then we'll check connected to
seven so we go here ok so now we mark
two is two equal to seven note is one
marked yes dance five mark no so then
we'll check connected 57 ok we end up
here ok at this point we mark five we
say is five equal 0 7 no it's two marks
yes is for marked know so we'll check
connectedness for four and seven ok now
you and I being animals that have a
visual cortex and the ability to reason
about space we could tell this is a
losing proposition but the computer has
no idea so we'll check connected for
seven we end up here mark for for glow
700k three marked no okay well which n
check connected 37 in this case ah well
there's no more children so finally
we'll return false because we know that
three is definitely not connected to
seven because there's nowhere else to go
so since this is false we go back to
form there's no more children so we
return false we get back up to five well
in this case for wasn't connected but we
still need to check six and eight
potentially so we're going to keep
checking our children's because there's
still some other hope so then we say is
six mark okay well in that case we'll
check connected 67 if six equal 0 70 ok
it's five marks yes and we're not going
to use that is seven marks no ok well
then we'll check connected list of seven
and seven yes seven equal the seventh so
we'll return true and then because this
was true will return true and then
because this was true five has gotten a
true so it will return true two or turn
true one will return true we get back to
the beginning and find the answer is
true we did it we found that 0 and seven
is connected and that right there is one
way to do connected now there are many
others and you might have had some issue
of the fact that we kind of went down
this blind alley but it turns out that
this is a rather popular and powerful
algorithm and it's known as depth-first
search by the way so this idea of
exploring and if we think about the
process that we went through this idea
of exploring the entire sub graph for
each child is known as depth-first
traversal so this graph makes a little
easier to see why this is true but if we
do it that's first reversal like we just
did on this graph whenever we call
connected on one we're going to explore
all one's children before we do any of
the other children 3487 right so we're
going to go all the way down this branch
before we try to do the others we
actually did that damn right before we
were willing to do so when we got 25
right before we get to six we're going
to explore this entire sub graph over
here and that's the essence of
depth-first traversal now depth-first
traversal I'm not one to usually do web
comic key things in the middle lecture
its kind of hacky but i think this is a
nice so depth-first traversal is
something that you could apply to real
life and this comic here gives an idea
of why depth-first traversal might not
be the best idea and it's true in real
wraps too and so this i think is a nice
illustration so imagine you're preparing
for a day ok so what do you need to
think about committing medical
emergencies dancing the foods too
expensive ok well let's first start with
what kind of emergencies well there
could be a snake bite lightning strike
you could fall from your chair can't
quite read that a challenge to the
reader ok well what snakes are dangerous
well say there's corn snakes garter
snakes copperheads and so forth and
eventually find yourself needing about
snake Venom's and you need a spreadsheet
ok so that is depth for search or well
guess this was the punchline ok look I
don't know there's a punch line I forgot
so you know hey you're not dressed yet
well you know you let them know your
date that the deadliest snake isn't deep
listening and so in this case depth
first search may not be the most
appropriate thing for preparing for
dates and that may be true for real
computational problems as well so how
would we implement that first search
well I'll mention that even though
depth-first search can run you into
trouble as we see here it is still a
common pattern and design
real graph down for them and essentially
the way we're going to do this is as
kind of intriguing right usually in the
past whenever you've been given a data
structure the way you've approached it
is okay well I'm going to add a new
method to my data structure so I have a
map on a math class and so I want to add
a put method I'll add it directly to the
math class with graphs are actually
going to do something a little different
it's pretty uncommon in the real world
which is rather than change or grass
class itself will create a separate
class so what we'll do is we'll in a
sense d couple the algorithm from the
type of self so what we usually do is
create a graph object will pass that
graph to some kind of graph processing
method or constructor and then we'll
query the client class for information
so in other words we take our graph and
we pass it to this path java file that
looks something like this the past class
it has a constructor where you give it a
graph in an integer it then later you
can ask is there a path to that vertex
and it will also give you that path and
we'll explore this idea a little bit
more in the next video but that's our
goal we're going to try and build a
depth first search implementation to get
an understanding really deeply of how
this works and even though we can run
into a little trouble with depth first
search it's still going to be a very
common tool and look let's explore I
actually building it